# 3.0 estimate enemies position 

## Assumption

All agent move one Manhattan distance each turn. (Except rebirth)

## basic idea

The basic idea is based on noisy distance and initial positions.  Since every turn the agent could move one Manhattan distance, the possible current positions are bound to be in t he previous possible positions expanding one grid, which could be imagined as a circle growing bigger and bigger. On the other side, the noisy distance falls into the range [real distacne -6,real distance +6], vice versa. And every time we obeserve, we could get a possible position falling into a ring. Combining with these two observations, by picking the intersection of them, we can get a rough estimation for our enemies. 

A more advanced and accurate method we used is that, we combine the above two with previous observation and the other agent's current and previous obeservations. Thus, we use total four observations with previous possible position to get our estimation. The result shows this method works well. Besides, we assume enemies uniformly appear in these possible areas.

## difficulties & caveats 

- Reborn problem: When enemies are reborn, the previous possible position should be the initial position. Besides, the previous obeservation should be abandoned. The reason behind is that rebirth breaks our assumption of one Manhattan distance each time. Therefore, we should re-estimate.
- Oreder of agent action: Assumed that the order is my agent 1, enemy agent 1, my agent 2, enemy agent 2 with index 0, 1, 2, 3 respectively. For my agent 1, its current obeservation for enemy agent 2 is "accurate" since enemy 2 moves before it, while for enemy 1, its obeservation is indeed an obsolete one since enemy 1 moves after it. On conclusion, for an agent, it has an "accurate" obeservation for the enemy move before it while its ally has an "accurate" obeservation for the enemy move after it.

## A better way

What can we do more based on this idea? Now we only use current and previous one observations, and the problem is sometime these observations are so consistent that we get wider and wider range even we do intersection operation. To get more precisely, we should utilise all obeservations since we lost sight of our enemies.

To better estimate enemies' positions, we could have another prior distribution(currently, we use uniform distribution), such as beta distribution which is conjugate prior to help us analyse whether the enemy is chasing us.

#3.0 Determine Blind Alley

First thing first, in theory this thing won't bother us if we use a Monte Carlo Tree Search as long as we simulate steps more than twice of the depth of alley and we would get back to the entrance at the right time. However, that takes huge computing resources and is impractical in our case due to limited computing time and hardware. Now, let's cut to the chase.

## Why this matters?

Assume that we are at the entrance of an blind alley and the distance with our enemy is six. According the rules, both of us don't have sight to know each other. The minimum steps for the enemy to this entrance is six and if we choose to eat a food whose depth at least three in this alley, then bad thing happens. We are stuck in this alley since the enemy is alreay waiting at the entrance. In another case, if we choose to eat a food with depth two, then we need four steps from this entrance back to this entrance. Even if the distance between me and my enemy is five, I am still have one spare step to run away.

## How to find blind alley ahead?

 A simple implementation is, for all legal positions, we get its successors and the end of alley should have only one successor pointing to the entrance. Then we continuously get the successors of the previous successors which points to the entrance. These positions form the main part of the alley. The last is about when we stop the loop. Indeed, the entrance of this problem is a vertex of a cycle(graph theory). Therefore, we should find all cycles in enemy's territory.

## What's next?

After we find all blind alleys, we can count the maze distance between inner food and the entrance. Every time, when we decide to eat a certain food inside an alley, we should promise that the cost/steps of starting from the current position to that food and then come back to the entrance should less than the maze distance between our enemy with that entrance. The discrepancy is the the distance between us when we come back. 

## More thoughts about cycle

Once we are in a cycle, we can run circle around our enemies without eaten. When 